Name:- Kondapally Pujitha
Group no:- G-62
Date:- 11/10/2023
Title:- Daily Report

		
 CRYPTO CURRENCY USING BLOCKCHAIN

BLOCKCHAIN:-

Block chain is a digital ledger which is used to store transactions over the entire distributed and decentralized network.
A blockchain consists of a set of protected blocks which are sequentially chained to one another.
Everytime a new block is added to the chain the list of new transactions is broadcasted to every node in the network.

PURPOSE OF BLOCKCHAIN:-

Blockchain is a type of distributed ledger technology (DLT), so it allows recording transactions and related data in multiple places at the same time.
Block technology provides safety of the information contained in the blocks as it can neither be deleted nor updated.Only a new block containing information about newer transactions can be added to the chain.In this way data is secured and immutable.

TYPES OF BLOCKCHAIN:-

Private: Use only internally, and when we know the users (eg. Hyperledger Fabric).
Public: Everyone can see what is going on (Bitcoin, Ethereum).
Hybrid: In case you want to combine the first two.
Centralized System:-
This system has a single entity as its authority and the entire data is held by that entity.
Ex:-Banks

Decentralized System:- 
In this system the authorization is done through an openly known protocol.In this system data is stored by the participants/users i.e every node/user  on that network holds a copy of the ledger. 
Ex:-Peer to Peer network.

Distributed:-
Blockchain works on the principle of Trustless Consensus which means a particular entity is not entrusted with the responsibility to maintain the ledgers instead this power to update the nodes is distributed among all the nodes in the network.It involves processes like Proof of Work(PoW) and Proof of Stake(PoS). 


ADVANTAGES OF DECENTRALIZED SYSTEM OVER CENTRALIZED SYSTEM:- 

Fault tolerance:-Data is secured as there is no single source from where the system can be compromised as data is distributed to every node over the entire network.
Sovereignty:-The users in the network can exactly know when and where their data is used.
No middlemen:-As blockchain involves direct transactions from one person to another without any involvement of third party or banks.The taxes on transactions can be saved.




GENERATION OF PUBLIC KEY AND PRIVATE KEY:-

A private key and a public key is generated to the users at the time of registering in a blockchain network.
The public key acts as an identity of the user.
The message consists of input,output -public key and time stamps along with the transactions.
The secret key along with the message helps in the generation of a digital signature.
The public key along with the message and digital signature allows any node in the network to validate the transaction.

ETHEREUM:-
Ether is the currency of Ethereum. Every activity on Ethereum that modifies its state costs Ether as a fee, and miners who are successful in generating and writing a block in a chain are also rewarded Ether.
Gas is the internal currency of Ethereum. The execution and resource utilization cost is predetermined in Ethereum in terms of gas units. This is also known as gas cost. There is also a gas price that can be adjusted to a lower price when the price of Ether increases and a higher price when the price of Ether decreases.


SOURCES:-
https://github.com/Vatshayan/Money-Transcation-Security-Blockchain-Project
https://builtin.com/blockchain/create-your-own-blockchain 

