CRYPTOCURRENCY  USING  BLOCKCHAIN  [G - 62 ] 
Daily Report

Member: Sreenidhi 
Date: 7th Oct 2023 


My Contribution:

I have browsed through various websites and youtube channels from where I gathered the following information from these sources :

Source links: Source 1
		    Source 2
		    Source 3
	              Source 4
	              Source 5

What is meant by Blockchain?
Blockchain is a method of securely recording data or information which makes it hard to hack or change the system.
Blockchain is simply a virtual record of transactions that is replicated and distributed throughout the blockchain’s complete network of computer systems

What is the Purpose of Blockchain?
The purpose of blockchain technology is to provide a secure, transparent, and decentralized way to record transactions and manage data. 
At its core, a blockchain is a distributed and tamper-proof digital ledger that can be used to store any type of data, not just financial transactions.

What does a Block mean in Blockchain?
Blocks are like Records that store valid transactions like a page of a record book and are hashed and encrypted into a Hash tree or Merkle tree.

What does each Block in Blockchain comprise of?
Each Block on the chain comprises a number of transactions and whenever a new transaction happens on blockchain, a record of that transaction is added to ledger of every participant.
Each block consists if  1) Block Header 2) List of Transactions
 3) Block Hash  4) Previous Block’s Hash.

What are the advantages of Blockchain? 
Information HIstroy can be tracked
Information tracking is easy
Keeping Information Unique became easy
Difficult to leak information
Elimination of middle man work
Added layers of security

What are the disadvantages of Blockchain?
Scalability, one of the major drawback as it cannot be scaled due the standard fixed size of the information storing block.
Time-Consuming, it is a time consuming process if we want to add the next block in the chain.
Storage, increasing number of transactions will require more storage and hence there is a constraint for storage.

Limitations of Database?
Expensive
High Complexity
Vast Size
Database Failure
Need of Skilled Staff
Lower Efficiency

What is meant by decentralization in cryptocurrency?
Decentralized means it is controlled by several authorities rather than one single authority.
In blockchain, decentralization refers to the transfer of control and decision-making from a centralized entity (individual, organization, or group thereof) to a distributed network.

Benefits of Decentralization?
It provides a Trustless Environment.
It optimizes resource distribution.
Less Burden to Higher Management 
Scope of specialisation

Disadvantages of Decentralization?
Requires huge capital
Chances of Misunderstanding
Difficult to maintain coordination
Not appropriate for small companies



