Name: Sreenidhi
Group: G62
Date: 11-10-2023

My Work Summary Points
( I have learnt these points, which I have summarised below )

Important Points: 

Every computer in the network must agree upon each new block and the chain as a whole.

These computers are known as "nodes". Nodes ensure everyone interacting with the blockchain has the same data.

Cryptocurrencies do not have centralized gatekeepers to verify the accuracy of new transactions and data that are added to the blockchain. Instead, they rely on a distributed network of participants to validate incoming transactions and add them as new blocks on the chain

To accomplish this distributed agreement, blockchains need a 
consensus mechanism.

( But what is meant by Consensus Mechanism? 
A consensus mechanism is any method used to achieve agreement, trust, and security across a decentralized computer network. 
In the context of blockchains and cryptocurrencies, proof-of-work (PoW) and proof-of-stake (PoS) are two of the most prevalent consensus mechanisms.)




Proof of Work ( PoW ) : 
Proof of work is a consensus mechanism to choose which of these network participants—called miners—are allowed to handle the lucrative task of verifying new data. 
It’s lucrative because the miners are rewarded with new crypto when they accurately validate the new data and don’t cheat the system.
The system requires miners to compete with each other to be the first to solve arbitrary mathematical puzzles to prevent anybody from gaming the system. The winner of this race is selected to add the newest batch of data or transactions to the blockchain.
Winning miners only receive their reward of new cryptocurrency after other participants in the network verify that the data being added to the chain is correct and valid.
Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Dogecoin etc use Proof of Work.


Proof of Stake ( PoS ) : 
It is a method used in blockchain technology to confirm new cryptocurrency transactions.
It acts as a mechanism ensuring that the data stored on the network is valid and verified in the absence of centralised authority.
Ethereum recently transitioned from PoW to PoS, cutting the energy consumption ( over 99 percent ).
Ethereum is now the largest blockchain using PoS as its consensus mechanism.




Few Differences Ethereum Vs Bitcoin : 
Ethereum uses a Proof of Stake (POS) based consensus mechanism whereas Bitcoin uses Proof of Work (POW) based consensus mechanism.
Ethereum Blockchain does not have a block limit, whereas Bitcoin Blockchain has a blocklimit of 1MB.
The Block time of Ethereum is 14 to 15 seconds, whereas the Block time of Bitcoin is 10 minutes.
Ethereum’s coin is called as Ether, whereas Bitcoin’s coin is called as BTC.


The source links which I have viewed:  

For Differences: 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-bitcoin-and-ethereum/

Blockchain Developer: 
https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/blockchain-tutorial/what-is-solidity-programming#:~:text=Solidity%20is%20an%20object%2Doriented,records%20in%20the%20blockchain%20system.

I have also viewed Forbes Advisor Website for additional Information regarding Blockchain, Ethereum.





